README.md, before:


![Earth](https://www.mkompf.com/gps/images/sphere2.png)


Geodesy-PHP
=============

Geodesy-PHP is a port of some known geodesic/math functions for getting distance from a known point A to a known point B given their coordinates (good for working out distances between different latitude/longitude data provided by Google Geolocation or any RESTful APIs).

It also supports conversion between units of length, Polar position to Cartesian coordinates, and different Reference Datums.

It provides distance calculations by:


### [Great-circle distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great-circle_distance) ###

1. [Spherical Law of Cosines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_law_of_cosines) 

2. [Haversine Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula)


### [Ellipsoid Geodesics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesics_on_an_ellipsoid) ###

1. [Vincenty's Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vincenty%27s_formulae)

2. [Hubeny's Formula](https://www.geo.tuwien.ac.at/fileadmin/editors/VGI/VGI_195403_Hubeny.pdf)

3. [Thomas' Formula](http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/703541.pdf)

4. [Andoyer-Lambert Formula](https://navlib.net/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/admiralty-manual-of-navigation-vol-1-1964-english501c.pdf)

5. [Elliptic Distance](http://edukacja.3bird.pl/download/fizyka/astronomia-jean-meeus-astronomical-algorithms.pdf)

6. [Forsythe-Andoyer-Lambert Formula](http://www2.unb.ca/gge/Pubs/TR77.pdf)




All units are in Base Metre. It converts distance values to:


## Unit Conversion ##

1. Kilometre

2. Mile

3. Nautical Mile

4. Astronomical Unit



All units are in Base WGS84. It comes with some pre-built datums and also allows conversion between them.
It also allows conversion between the ff:


## Position Conversion ##

1. Polar to Cartesian

2. Cartesian to Polar

3. Polar to Web Mercator

4. Web Mercator to Polar



Documentation
=============

You can read about it [here](https://myth-of-sissyphus.blogspot.com/2018/04/geodesyphp-great-earth-distance-library.html)

Commit message:

Added Transformer Namespace for some other options.

README.md, after:


![Earth](https://www.mkompf.com/gps/images/sphere2.png)


Geodesy-PHP
=============

Geodesy-PHP is a port of some known geodesic/math functions for getting distance from a known point A to a known point B given their coordinates (good for working out distances between different latitude/longitude data provided by Google Geolocation or any RESTful APIs).

It also supports conversion between units of length, Polar position to Cartesian coordinates, and different Reference Datums.

It provides distance calculations by:


### [Great-circle distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great-circle_distance) ###

1. [Spherical Law of Cosines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_law_of_cosines) 

2. [Haversine Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula)


### [Ellipsoid Geodesics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesics_on_an_ellipsoid) ###

1. [Vincenty's Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vincenty%27s_formulae)

2. [Hubeny's Formula](https://www.geo.tuwien.ac.at/fileadmin/editors/VGI/VGI_195403_Hubeny.pdf)

3. [Thomas' Formula](http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/703541.pdf)

4. [Andoyer-Lambert Formula](https://navlib.net/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/admiralty-manual-of-navigation-vol-1-1964-english501c.pdf)

5. [Elliptic Distance](http://edukacja.3bird.pl/download/fizyka/astronomia-jean-meeus-astronomical-algorithms.pdf)

6. [Forsythe-Andoyer-Lambert Formula](http://www2.unb.ca/gge/Pubs/TR77.pdf)



All units are in Base Metre. It converts distance values to:


## Unit Conversion ##

1. Kilometre

2. Mile

3. Nautical Mile

4. Astronomical Unit




It also allows coordinate conversions between the ff:


## Position Conversion ##

1. Polar to Cartesian

2. Cartesian to Polar

3. Polar to Web Mercator

4. Web Mercator to Polar



Reference Datums are, and will become, WGS84. It also comes with some pre-built datums (though very limited as it has little use for me aside from WGS84 at the time of writing this) and also allows transformation between them.


## Transformation Options ##

1. 3-Parameter Molodensky Transformer

2. 7-Parameter Helmert Transformer

3. 10-Parameter Molodensky-Badekas Transformer



Documentation
=============

You can read about it [here](https://myth-of-sissyphus.blogspot.com/2018/04/geodesyphp-great-earth-distance-library.html)
